So we can manipulate cookies
so storing sensitive data is not ideal but I mentioned that for example for tracking users,
it's a popular instrument and why is that?
Because as you can for example see with the cookies I have here, the cookies don't only have to relate
to your page.
A cookie can also be sent to another page and that is a common instrument in tracking where you have that
so-called tracking pixel on pages which is simply an image url with no real image
but that image can be located on let's say Google's servers and you have a cookie on that page which
is also sent along with that
and therefore Google can track on which page you are and how you are moving through the web even if
you're not on their websites because some data is stored in your client and obviously you could delete
it therefore
which is why you can block such mechanisms too
but it is stored there and it is sent with every request to Google, so they can track you without you
being on their servers,
so storing that information on their servers would not work but storing it on your computer will work
because obviously that can be sent on every page you visit.
So that is something where this could be interesting if you want to track your users,
that is a very common thing to do
and you can also configure cookies.
We set a value but actually you can set more things than just the value, here
I set my cookie by adding that key value pair.
Now obviously we could add multiple cookies, multiple key value pairs,
we can also add a semi-colon after the key value pair and for example set expires to some expiration date, this
date would have to follow a certain format, the http date format,
I'll link it attached to this video here.
So you could set a certain date when this cookie will expire because remember if you don't set this,
it will expire once you close your browser.
Alternatively to expires, you can set max age written like this
and this is a number in seconds, how long that cookie should stay around,
so we could set this to 10 for example
and now if I click that login button here, I got logged in
and now you see the expiry date also changed here, the expiry date
if I decrease that, the expiry date here basically is today and now it already is expired and if I reload
that page, is logged in is therefore gone.
So this is something we can do
and this is of course interesting if you want to control for example how long you want to track a user
or we will actually use that together with authentication later,
you could use this to also control how long an authenticated session stays active for a user,
you might know that from your online bank where you timeout after a certain duration. You can also
add a domain to which the cookies should be sent
and here we again are on that tracking thing again.
You can add secure just like this without an equal sign, just secure,
this means this cookie will only be set if the page is served via
https.
Now I can't demonstrate this here because our local development server is not using https but we will eventually
use https later in the course where I will show you how to set this up,
so now you can already see however that I get an error if I try to reload login because I try to extract
the value which is not there.
So for now let's simply comment this out and set this always to false so that I can just show you how
this cookie is now not set,
if I reload and I click here, you don't see the cookie here because I added secure and it would only
be set if we are serving the page
via https
and you can also set this to http only.
Now if I do that and I go back to login and I click here,
it is set but now it has this checkmark here in the http column
and that means that now we can't access the cookie value through client side javascript,
so in the scripts running in the browser. This can be an important security mechanism because it protects
us against cross-site scripting attacks now
because now your client side javascript where someone could have injected malicious code can't
read your cookie values and that will be important later with authentication where a cookie will not
store the sensitive information but an important part of authenticating the user.
So this can be an extra security layer because now the cookie will still be attached to every request
that is sent to the server
but you can't read the cookie value from inside the browser javascript code.
Obviously as you can tell, as a user in the developer tools, you can still read it
but then again it's your own cookie and you will not store information like hey I'm logged in there
because that would be easy to manipulate and you can't protect against that.
These are the key values you can set here
and this gives you a lot of flexibility.
That being said, often you will not directly set your cookies because you rather use some packages like
for example for authentication that will manage setting the cookie for you. And that is something which
I'll dive into in the next lectures where we dive into sessions, what sessions are, how they can help
us with storing sensitive information across requests and how cookies still are important when using
sessions.